[Music]
so I'll tell a little bit about my story
and who I am I'm a fashion photographer
based in New York City I've worked for
lots of different magazines and in New
York have worked for Elle and for a
Marie Claire and for interview and for
GQ and got to work with some really
beautiful people like my Studios in New
York but I also lived in Milan for about
eight years and worked in Paris as well
and worked for the house of you selling
wrong adults it did portraiture as well
come back to skip that show but we go
back so we did lots of different I've
worked for lots of different magazines
lots of great clients and but I was
always told every single day who was
beautiful I was forced to work within
certain parameters of the beauty
standard I was told this is the most
amazing model of the moment you've got
to photograph her she's incredible and
you got his shots and then the next
season it would change again and I have
to shift my ideas of beauty and should
go to the next model and it was kind of
really crazy because I saw I'm an artist
I saw beauty everywhere I didn't see
beauty just on a magazine cover I did I
did a shoot with of course India for
Revlon and really fantastic beautiful
people but I thought you know what
someone's always telling me who's
beautiful and I was kind of frustrating
I left my studio one afternoon in New
York I was walking down Park Avenue and
I'm so waiting for a bus at the corner
of Park and 20th this gorgeous kid she
had long white beautiful hair pale pale
skin she had a genetic condition called
albinism didn't know much about it but
she was stunning and I never met a model
like this before and I went to grab her
said I have to take your photograph
you're amazing and the bus came she got
on and she took off and I was really
glad because she was 12 and I'd be in
prison at the moment but it was
extraordinary to see this kid so I
continued right down to Union Square to
huge Barnes & Noble started pulling any
books or any information I could about
this genetic condition albinism and I
felt like really kind of sad
is I've been fine images of this kid I
found images of people sitting in
hospital beds looking sad looking
downtrodden
look at just images of despair I found
images of a bright red hi the albino eye
I'm thinking this kid had beautiful blue
eyes shouldn't have red eyes and that
Mike started seeing images from Africa
where kids were surrounded by tribes
pointing Spears at them or in in cancer
wards and clinics or they're just in
beds and images of illness of sadness of
sickness and then I started of course
going through those same medical
textbooks instead of finding these
typical images of kids and adults in
their underwear against walls and
doctors offices with the black bar
across their eyes saying disease this is
a disease defined by a disease like this
is crazy and then I started going into
further looking in the internet and all
these different medical textbooks and
everything was so sad and so negative I
then started finding images of the
albino freak family in the circus and
then of course all the movie references
from powder who had albinism versus
mother was struck by lightning lightning
to the Princess Bride
and to the Matrix Reloaded there were
the ghost-like twins that came in and
wreaked havoc and and destroyed things
and then disappeared even most recently
The Da Vinci Code was like the evil
albino drive around Paris and like
killing people shooting at people well I
found out do my research that people
with albinism have a visual impairment
there's always vision but they're
considered legally blind so they
certainly wouldn't be driving around
Paris at night shooting at anybody and
expect to hit anything something this is
crazy
so I contact Noah now Noah is the
National Organization for albinism and
hypopigmentation it's a support group
for people living with this condition
and their families and I'm like hey I'm
the fashion photographer let's show the
world the beauty of albinism and they
said get lost and I'm young pretty
persistent like what are you talking to
him and they said they made it very
clear to me about their fears of
exploitation that every time there was a
magazine article that came out about a
kid with albinism it was the story about
a victim it was sad or was exploitative
or sensational never positive always
negative I said okay well then
what do we do here so let's form a
non-traditional partnership fashion
photographer genetic support group and
we'll work together and you can keep an
eye on me to make sure that we create
something positive and powerful showing
the world the beauty of albinism and
they said okay and I was like fantastic
let's do this so in walked the first
person I'm about to photograph her name
is Christine and Christine is a knockout
long white hair really tall she's
stunning she walks into my studio don't
wait up she walks in though instead of
this gorgeous girl she walks in like
this her heads down shoulders hunched
one-word answer she looks with no eye
contact this kid has been teased her
whole life because of her difference and
it was so apparent on the fact that it
left her with zero zero self-esteem I'm
thinking oh this kid is so she's just so
so fragile and just the day before I was
shooting Cindy in the Saints on the same
set in my studio I'm thinking well I
have to be so careful I said no out of
respect for this gorgeous kid I want to
photograph her like I would anybody else
so the fan went on the music alone and I
grabbed a mirror that was next to the
set and I held it up to her and I said
Chris do you know what fix yourself
you're magnificent and she looked in the
mirror and she got it it's he went from
this and that's our Christina she just
exploded in front of it but she was all
over by the time she left the studio she
was kissing everybody on both cheeks and
saying ciao and she was unbelievable and
I saw this transformation right in front
of the lens through photography that she
was now transformed with a powerful and
positive sense of who she is
the next day she goes to school she's
going to change the way her community
sees her difference instead of walking
into that classroom like this she's
walking in like this so it's all about
ambassadors for change it was
extraordinary in those first images of
red have to be to be did a series of
images on several individuals with this
syndrome Heather's in this condition was
in life they were in Life magazine in
1998 so a while ago it was a cover story
it was a five-page spread it was really
a fantastic
editorial it was great I loved it then
we use the
one of the images though from life put
them in make other magazines magazines
worldwide magazines in the UK in France
and Italy Canada there were and other
magazines in the states it was amazing
so it's from the UK Cristina again
friend Jamie Ruthie her sisters and
Christin
let's not lower we did a campaign for
sunglasses a lot of kids with this
condition have our photo phobic so they
have a real strong light sensitivity so
we thought perfect for an eyeglass
campaign a sunglass campaign People
magazine did a great story so it's real
little circulating things where people
were saying all this great stuff it was
fantastic so I was getting calls up
getting calls from the UK saying well we
just saw this spread can you come and
photograph our kids with this condition
can you come we have a some work group
here can you come with me and our
families people in Africa we're doing
calling the same New Zealand can you
help us start a support group I'm like
fantastic this is great let's do it um
so I would travel grab all these places
and as I was shooting and doing my
commercial work I was at a local chapter
conference in Philadelphia small family
conference about 40 families did my
presentation of kids with albinism this
mom came up came up to me and she said
you know my son Randy when he was a
little boy he'd come home from school
and I could see the kids were teasing
him and he'd be in tears and I buy him
an ice cream cone or or a toy truck and
he'd forget about it she said now he's
in high school he comes home from school
I could see the pain the anguish in his
eyes he walks in he comes goes walks and
walks right past me goes up his room
slams the door and I don't see him till
the next day she said he's not gonna
want to be photocopiers Eros of the
students can is such poor body image and
he's just it's so it's he's just so shy
but if you could just show him
photographs of kids his own age so that
he knows he's not alone like of course
where is he show me she fully severed a
random number Andy Center his pants are
hanging down to here his underwears
hanging out he has this long great big
show you his tenure rings and some
tattoo
he's amazing this kid I crawl over to
Rendon like Randy I speak to moms and
dads every single day terrified about
the future of their kids with albinism
all they have to do is take one look at
you and they're going to be fun please
let me take the favor
your mother said and she told me that
you didn't want to be footage looked
like wait you sir
what do you mean I can't listen but you
have to understand I'm 16 years old I
don't talk to my mother and then ladies
I want to be photographed I want to show
the road but who are you with my Alvin
ISM but also other things don't you feel
shy he was very very shy random but
Randy created early days in this idea
this nonprofit group positive exposure
the idea of networking story sharing
experiences and the images around the
world oh come and quickly go through
Albin it's like sorry I'm very
interested at that point getting calls
from everybody in the world to find out
more about this idea a message about
albinism our perceptions of people in
communities about the syndrome albinism
so I started hearing about stigmas and
discrimination and I actually so what I
looked at is really kind of explore
cultural perceptions and attitudes
towards this condition this is my friend
Gladys mirror who's a Kuna Indian in the
same loss region of the world and at the
sandbox region of the center of Panama
she's extraordinary she said the
incidence of albinism is about one in
20,000 worldwide and the Kuna Indian
it's someone in 125 the highest
incidence in the world we went to Fiji
actually where we found out to turn in
the 19th century a tribe could not hold
their territory let's say it's somebody
with albinism in a powerful political
position in a cat game my great friend
Kiki I photographed in New Zealand she's
from from India from New Delhi from
Delhi but she her family left Delhi
because she was getting death threats
now I'm thinking this is horrible they
had to move but she's 8 years old and we
actually started the support group in
Delhi and found out that there are many
kids that we worked with in their
communities after we started this group
in India that have had really positive
experiences so one of the things that
were making me supermoon make very clear
is that we're not making generalizations
about a community or a culture and
they're reacting to people that are
different techies experiences were very
different but we met many kids there
that had been embraced by their
communities throughout India a great
friend out Sumana from Korea Tom who was
just adopted by an American family from
China it's my great friend Harry from
Puerto Rico
Natalia she and I started the first
albinism society in Russia my Zhaan and
her sister and mom
in Malaysia pyaara pyaara all she ever
wanted to do was be a dancer she was
told of because of her visual impairment
she'll never dance so never be able to
follow the choreography or the dance
steps never she's like oh that's us but
to me she's like they said find another
love another passion she's like no she's
New Zealand's Celtic dance champion and
just started to school for dance for
kids with visual impairments Mike I'm
gonna zip through this Ross from
Australia
it lets a lot of time in Africa with us
a high incidence of mortality associated
with albinism due to skin cancer that's
my friend ciri who when she was born the
father the father's family put her out
how think she was cursed put her out of
the house and and mom not knowing what
to do put ciri in the Sun to get her
dark like her brothers and sisters so he
see it's all sun damage this is a great
frame a lot of kids I met it throughout
Africa we were put in schools special
schools of schools for the blind not
because of the tools are better there
for kids with visual impairment but more
importantly because the teasing was so
great this discrimination is so great
these kids don't do well in mainstream
schools
I started in albinism society in Kenya
with my friend CK who actually went to a
mainstream school like secret how is it
possible you went to a mainstream school
nobody in Africa goes the mainstream
schools she said it's because of my twin
sister Daphne like fantastic she said
yeah that's me we get all the work off
the board the thing is I couldn't see
she'd help me with it from the pipe was
too small she'd blow it up for me she
said but more importantly when kids
would tease me Daphne would beat them up
spelling Saturno time spending a lot of
time in Tanzania where witch doctors are
saying bring me the bones of an albino
and I'll make a potion that will make
you rich so we're working very closely
with the government there they would
have been there six times in the last
two years to really kind of create
programs public awareness programs to
save these kids it kind of go quickly
through so I received the up so dancer
this isn't a shin yongjae reason these
are one of the visuals that we created
in in Africa in East Africa trying to
fight in and kind of educate the public
let's just actually I received the art
of reporting award from the an
organization called the chromosome 18
registry and it was actually a large
organization sorry was the genetic
Alliance which was a coalition of all
the genetic support groups and it was
the award for the life magazine piece
the President of the
so most of the founder and director of
this chromosome 18 research society and
register like fantastic that's great
what timing she's like well if you have
a an abdominal anomaly on your 18th
chromosome then you have all kinds of
problems and difficulties and challenges
and you and then we look after you it's
this is through this support group like
Noah is so I'm like it's great she's
like well she said I see there's a
universal message here about all kids
with differences so it's not just about
albinism would you come and speak to our
families in San Antonio with these
chromosome 18 and always I'm like sure I
went back to thinking how does a
chromosome 18 anomaly I was an art major
at the School of Visual Arts I had no
idea but I looked it up and looked and
all these are images that I saw I'm
thinking I have an ism was so easy this
is gonna be rough but I went San Antonia
walk down to the ODA turn with the kids
and young adults were open the door and
it was instantly surrounded by kids
screaming with laughter there were kids
with with cleft palates kids with
mobility issues feeding tubes traits but
they were kids first and foremost that's
Rebecca and Pauline my great friend
that's Ellington he's awesome
Remy Emery Byron Taylor Elizabeth it's
just some of my great friends Sean is it
um so we decided at that point to
involve other organizations to be part
of this larger exhibition that was going
to be sent out that the the from the
people's genome celebration in 2001 they
invited me to the National Human Genome
Research Institute and the genetic lines
invited me to create an exhibition at
the Smithsonian commemorating the
mapping of the human genome so we
actually divided other genetic support
groups to be part of this exhibition not
just on albinism but all groups again
illustrating the universal applicability
I saw these images than the Marfan
foundation these kids grow very very
tall at risk of an aortic dissection but
they're amazing case I thought that of
course I understood the importance of
this image how important it was to show
how beautiful I mean to show how the
image presents itself but isn't there
another way to show up because nobody I
my photograph thousands of kids now with
Marfan syndrome and nobody stands like
this with the portable black bar it's
just it's extraordinary so we decided to
put them in a pool show Billy swimming
show helped me on how it presents itself
but keep going and keep presenting how
how these kids
and but the thing yeah humanity back in
these gorgeous images well I only have a
few minutes seconds here so I'm gonna
kind of go through cool girls at the
Costello conference these are great
friends of Danielle and Maggie who
actually met at the les Costello
conference they both first time they
ever met anybody with the same syndrome
but and they go to the same conferences
every year and I go and photograph them
and this year they were there again in
Florida but this time it's a little
different they have them they're
gangsters now but they're pretty amazing
kits I just want to quickly go and talk
very briefly about this really great kid
he's just so sorry I didn't know I was
gonna go on solve but I just want to
talk very briefly about a project that
we're taking these images and bring them
in the high schools making I can
photograph a great kid in my studio and
she's having a brilliant time and she
feels up 2,000 feet tall but time she
leaves my studio and gets to Park Avenue
that five people point at her put
another birthmark red or white hair or
her wheelchair so we have to make it
relevant for all of us for all these
kids to make people understand the know
some of the idea of celebrating
diversity actually means so we serve in
a project called the pearls product
where these kids are photographs are
going into high schools and the kids
that are in the images are blogging and
the students are following their blogs
and they all have these brain if video
intros I'm just going to give you this
last one and this is actually Byron who
is actually one of our bloggers my name
is Byron I live in the DC area on 14th
when I was 10 months old I had a left
hemispheric to me um I had the left half
of my brain removed because I of us I
have something called sturge-weber
syndrome
I wear a brace on the on my right leg
and right arm I only see out of the
right side of each eye
so sometimes it's harder for me to see
some see things on the right side so
playing sports can be frustrating
because I might not see a ball coming
I didn't see that so these are the image
these are the so we're using all the
visual arts that change public
perceptions through these great kids I
feel as an artist it's my responsibility
to I know that when I was a kid I saw
someone with that was different walking
down the street I what if I stare like
that slap by my mom so the idea was
others he if you don't don't stare it
look away and I think as an artist it's
my responsibility and all of our
responsibilities to steady that gaze a
little bit longer loner to really seek
as you stand there you'll see difference
you'll you'll start seeing beauty in
that difference in the start seeing
beautiful gorgeousness and then this
light just spreads and once you're
enlightened it just it changes your
whole world it's about seeing the beauty
in all differences thank you so much I'm
sorry around over thank you guys
[Applause]
you
[Music]